So let's start solving this assignment together.
I'll start by adding div Dev D id app and we already or do we and theriac Dom here so we can immediately
create our component and we'll create a class for this which I'll name.
App which extends re-act component just as you'll learn to create a component with that class syntax.
Now there you learned we need to have a render method which should return some GSX which can be output.
I'll put this in parentheses to make or to be able to write multi-line GSX code and here for now it
will simply output a paragraph where I say my hobbies something like that will improve this app soon.
Now we need to call re-act Dom render to output is root component so I'll use appliqued it's a self-closing
h tim l element.
And don't want to put it in this place so I simply get access to it with normal Javascript code.
Document queries selector and then selecting hash tag app to get the element with the idea.
If we have control enter we should see my hobby stare and that's part 1 of the exercise solved.
But we shouldn't only output this paragraph.
You may actually remove it if you don't like it but we should output an array of hobby's.
Now for this I will store desiré of hobbies in my initial state so that we can change it thereafter.
So I will add a constructor to the app to the app component and I left out a space between constructor
and renderer to save some space so that it's easier to read all the code in this constructor.
We noted we get the props even if we don't receive any props here we still have to fetch them and we
should then call super and pass the props to the parent constructor of re-act component here.
Then I can set up my own state by calling this state and setting it equal to a javascript object.
And here I simply want to have my hobbies array and it's not an empty array initially.
Instead I'll add cooking and sports maybe something like that.
Now I want to output this array because that's all that hask we have here.
So let's change this year.
Let's.
Well let me actually leave this paragraph here but important.
Let's wrap it in one diff because you must only have one root element in your Jarras X code.
So sibling elements on the root level are not allowed.
So let's put our paragraph in there and then add an ordered list to output our list items.
Do you remember how we could create such a list.
We simply use the map method.
Now we could do this in line here in Singler calling braces accessing this state hobby's map and then
putting our code in there that would actually work.
But to make this a bit cleaner I'll outsource it in my render method here.
So let's say method but well before the return statement and I will return my list L elements maybe
like this.
Which is equal to this state hobby's map to create something for each element in disarray.
And there I will use again the E-6 arrow syntax to get my individual element or hobby you can names
whatever you like.
Then execute this code.
And again the long form would be function hobby without the arrow in between.
But I'm using Diorio for well simply because it's a bit shorter in this case.
Here again dive into IIS 6 course if you want to learn more about all these E-6 features like this syntax.
So here I get the individual hobbies so the code here is executed for each element in this irrate and
your I simply want to return my list item with the Harbi being output between it.
So then I can use my list elements and output there and my unordered list because it will be a bunch
of such items.
If I now had control enter Usie cooking and sports here.
So that's working.
That's the second part solved.
Now we should add a new hobby button and the input field so that we are able to add new hobbies.
Well let's add a button above an unordered list where say new hobby and in front of the button.
Let's add our input element.
Now input of course is a self-closing task here and now input should be of type text here and now we
need to set up our own to a binding so that we get access to what the user entered here.
So in my state all named as new hobby or new hobby input whatever you like it's an empty string initially.
I'll use this state property on this input now to bind the value to in single curly braces.
Does state new hobby and put an empty string initially.
And now we need to do something whenever the user types solves this over multiple lines again to make
it easier to read.
Now I will add a new method where I will say change Harbi input.
For example we will receive the event here that's passed to us automatically by reactor's default chala
script event object and therefore here we can say this set state to change our state.
But of course I only want to change my new hobby input here and set it to what the user entered.
So event target gives me the input element and then value the value the user entered.
This now change does so now we can access the value with new hobby input.
And now what I can do here is I can hook up a button to call another method here which I'll name at
Hobby and at Hobby here.
Now I should also call this set state and here of course I want to change my hobbies every so hobbies
should change.
You always array so I will store the old array in a constant here.
So old hobby's maybe should be does state hobbies.
Just accessing my hubby's array in the state.
Now as before.
I don't want to push an element on there.
Instead I will use old hobbies and then concat to add the element and get back and mew.
And here I will simply push this state New hobby input's I want to use are entered.
And you could add a check in here to check if the user did actually enter something and simply return.
So check the value of new hobby input here and return.
If the input is empty and only set to state if it is not empty I will leave it like it is.
Or like this here.
However So does will now add this to the hobbies array.
Now with that I can call it and first of all I need to hook up my on change Lisner on the input.
So here we want to call change hobby input so let's call this between single call races.
However of course this change how we input because we're inside a class so I need this to access this.
And now on the button I can add on click with single call the braces to call this and now add hobby
we so call add hobby for both methods.
I need to bind this however so that this refers to the correct thing to declasse at runtime.
No let's hear it.
Control enter and lions.
Let's try entering reading here.
This looks good.
It gets added and of course we do have a warning though that we didn't add keys because remember if
you work with lists in react you should add keys so it's better if you go to your list item and set
the key.
And now hobby of course isn't a unique identifier.
So what we can do here and that's not optimal is we can use the index of the element.
In theory that is exposed as a second argument by the map method so we can set key equal to index.
It's not optimal because the index Well if you change the array then the element which had index 1 in
the first iteration might not still have index one because maybe we added a new element at the beginning
of the array.
We don't do here but in general using the index as a key is not optimal but here it does actually work
and do the trick.
So now if we rerun this you'll see the warning has gone and I can again enter my new hobbies and it
works as before.
There is this task here solved task free.
Now we should make our hobby's clickable to remove them once we collect them.
Nothing easier than that.
Let's add a new method.
Remove Harbi and there I want to well remove it obviously from my array of hobbies.
If we did click it here I expect to get the hobby and then I want to access where I want to get my hobbies
so Konst old hobbies should be this state hobbies not a hobby I get here will be part of disarray.
So the position of that will be in the old hobbies and then I can get it.
Why index off to find out which index this hobby has in my array of hobbies.
And then I want to call this set state a javascript object to update my hobbies and now we need to do
the opposite of concat.
Well there are many solutions for this.
The solution.
I will go with is to access my old hobbies here and then use the Folder method a built in javascript
method we can use on arrays.
The Thota method now also allows us to execute the arrow function.
The first element or the first argument here will just be the element.
We don't really need that but the second one will be the index of that element.
And now we need to return true or false to decide whether this should be part of the filtered result.
Which is a new array or not.
So here we want to return all elements where the index is not equal to the position of the element we
actually want to remove.
So here I can simply return if index is not equal to position because if it is equal it is that single
element.
I want to remove So there I want to return false in all cases I want to return true so that these elements
are still part of the new array which is returned by filter.
So this is how we can remove the hobby with the filter method to return a new array with all elements
but the one I want to get rid of.
Now of course we need to call remove hobby.
So we should do this when we click a list id..
So here I can add on click and I will again use this as 6 trick to be able to pass some extra data when
I click.
So here I will use the arrow function to execute to kill it between DS curly braces and there I actually
just want to execute this remove hobby and pass the hobby and I will split this over month lines to
again make this a bit easier to read
like that.
So datus now my list item here.
The interesting thing now is this hobby I pass here is part of this map function.
So that's just for you to keep in mind where this is coming from.
Keep in mind we're creating this list item for each iteration in this map function.
So we get Harbi which will be the individual items in this list so therefore we can simply pass hobby
and you would be right if you say that we could immediately all to pass the index here and save the
time of getting the position with index off and just received the index of the element you want to remediate
removed immediately.
There would be a shorter solution but also want to show the more flexible one.
If that would not be an option.
So if we do this let's call it control enter and let's look.
Cooking looks good.
Let's talk sports.
Let's check the console.
All right let's click reading and cooking and sports.
Let's remove cooking reading cooking and sport and that seems to work.
So now we can remove elements when they click on them.
Task five wants us to display how we delete it if we well delete that at least one hobby.
So maybe we should do this.
Below are buttons but above is unaware to list here.
Hobby.
Delete that.
But of course if you do it like this we would always display it.
So let's remove it from there and instead let's go into our render method where we already create our
list elements.
And here I now want to output does if the list elements did change.
For this I will first go to my state however and add a new property and it Harbi was deleted which is
false initially in remove hobby.
I will set it to true though so it does set state.
I will now not only set my hobbies but also Harbi was deleted.
We can of course change to state of more than one property at the same time.
I will say that to true here Abi was deleted does state here and now with that I can go to my render
function and check if this state Harbi was deleted which is a boolean.
So if this is true then I want to output where I went to change a new variable which will name Harbi
delete that paragraph again.
Choose a shorter name if you want.
And there I will set this too.
Well GSX to a paragraph where I say hobbie was deleted.
Otherwise it's just an empty string.
Now I can use the hobby delete a paragraph in my code which I return in the end.
And here below my buttons are simply used to single curly braces to output hobby delete the paragraph
Fahid control enter now you see as soon as I delete the hobby.
It appears here.
So we added this to and we solved task 5.
Now onto task 6.
Add a hobby counter above the list of hobbies.
So here basically.
Well that should be easy and it is easy.
We can edit any year in a return statement and we can simply say hobbyists and then single call the
braces because we need some dynamic context content here comes up the extra steps state hobby's length
because hobbys and our state object of course is an array.
So if I hit enter you see too.
But if I add more here you see that this updates and if I remove elements it reduces of course so dad
already has toxics solved.
Only two to go now in Task 7 we should solve at Hobby counter depending on whether we have more or less
than free hobbies.
So it's this hobby's counter a one to style and you learned how you may style it.
Let's again create a new property here.
All name it Harbi counter style and this will be a javascript object.
And here I will simply say I want to set the text color on one to set it depending on the web we have
more or less free hobby's So check if this state hobby's length is greater than 3.
If that is the case that's ternary expression here.
I will set it to read.
Otherwise I will set it to black.
Now that already is all I need here.
Without the semi-colon though I can now use this variable or actually I can make it a constant.
I can use this constant now.
In my paragraph here add style and bind it to this constant which is just as object of conditional styles.
If I hit Control enter you see it has the normal black color.
But if I add a 440 it changes to red.
Now let's also add a class maybe name at multiple hobby's year to gift as a border of one pixel solid
and rat and now you are attached his class conditionally.
Well I will simply go here.
And add my constant Harbi counter class and I will simply copy this check here.
If we have more free I will add multiple hobby's.
The class be created here.
Otherwise I will add no class.
That's all I want to do.
So with that hobby Kountry Klosters constant should be an empty string.
If we have less or equal to free hobbies are wise it should refer to multiple hobbies.
Now that allows me to use stat in my javascript or the J as X code here to add CLOS remembered that
as used with class name not just with class and then single called braces to refer to Harbi Kountry
class to constantly create a tear.
With that if I hit enter.
Nothing changes but if I enter reading your add one time nothing changes.
Added a fourth time or a second time actually we got the red color and the red border.
So Dadis task 7 solved.
Let's go to the final hask and let's outsource our hobbies.
The list items here into a reusable component.
Now for this I will create a new component and I mentioned in the challenge that you should use the
function form.
So I will simply name this hobby dysfunction here.
And as you learned does function form receives the prop's argument and we need that because we need
to know which hobby to output.
Now in this function I want to return J as X which renders such a single list item.
Right now we do that down here so I can just copy or cut this code from the render method of our abro
component of the component and output it here like dead it was a little bit to the left here.
We still need the key and well of course on click and so on won't work here.
All named as props hobby name because we will get the data from outside it will all get to click listener
from outside.
So for now I will just remove this year.
Of course this will break it for now we'll fix it soon.
And well the index here will be prop's hobby index.
Now with that we got our results reusable component.
We can now go down to a render method where I cut this code and here instead.
I now want to output my heartbeat discompose and we just create it.
And of course I need to pass the two props I'm using right now.
Hobby index a name.
So here I was at Harbi index too.
Well the index we got here and I will said Hobby name well to the Harbi we have the map function.
If I hit Control ENTRAR this should still work just clicking on them doesn't work but the rest so works.
Now to make that click listener word you learned how we can pass a reference to the method we want to
execute in the parent component to the child component and that's exactly what I need to do here.
So let's split this over multiple lines to make this a bit easier to read.
And now I actually want to set a new method here and you Propertius me Harbi clicked maybe and pass
a reference to the well method I want to execute.
Remove hobby in this case.
So remove hobby this remove hobby is the function I one to execute.
If we click a hobby.
So for this to work I all to bind this year of course.
Now I got the hobby click prop.
So in my hobby component I can now add this year in the On Click listener.
I will still use the iOS 6 index because I want to pass some extra data but I cannot execute prop's
hobby clicked because it is a prob probably clicked which holds this reference and executed like this.
And I pass the hobby name in the end so props Harbi name fanout control enter and then click on cooking.
It still is deleted just like it was before.
Now that's all looking nice.
But if we open the console log we see that we get this warning.
We saw earlier and of course we should assign a key.
Now clearly we are assigning a key to each list item.
Why do we get that error then.
Because that's a common gotcha which is why I wanted to show it.
The key should always be assigned in a place where you map through your elements where you actually
repeat an element.
And if you are looking closely we're not really repeating the list item.
It's part of a component.
And in this component we only use it once.
The thing we're actually repeating is our hobby component here in the map function.
So it is on this hobby component where we should set our key.
So we should remove the key from within our hobby component.
We don't need it there we only have one element in there.
Instead we should add it here.
Here we should set our key on the hobby component itself.
That of course means we can remove the hobby index property.
We don't need debt but instead we should simply set the key like we did before but now in the hobby
component and if we now clear our error log here and hit control and try to reload this.
Now you see it's gone.
And it works as before but now with the right key assignment and that ISDE assignments solved a lot
of work using a lot of features of re-act staying in this re-act world and thinking re-act which is
quite different to view.
Yes I will admit this.
Now we will dive into how we can use react on a local setup with workflow which allows us to use all
these ESX and j as X features and how we may use it to create a single page application.